Protocol change impact (#2715)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: develop/devguide/Connector/ImpactOfProtocolChanges/TableParameterChanges/ChangeDisplayKey.md

---
uid: ChangeDisplayKey
---

# Change display key

Changing the display key of a table is considered a major change.

## Impact

This has the same impact as changing a parameter description. The following DataMiner features can be impacted if used:

- Filters
- Automation scripts
- Visio files

> - Reports

Author: Should we add dashboards too?

Reviewer: Added

- Web API

*DIS MCC*

|            | Error message | Description                                                                                                        |
|------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **2.39.4** | FormatChanged | Table display key was changed from {oldSyntax} '{oldFormat}' to {newSyntax} '{newFormat}'. Table PID '{tablePid}'. |
| **2.39.5** | FormatRemoved | Table display key previously defined via '{oldSyntax}' was removed. Table PID '{tablePid}'.                        |

## Workarounds

### Display key column exists

If a display key already exists, and you want to change its format, the following routine should be implemented to avoid impact by default:

> - R/W (standalone) discreet parameter to select the naming format

Author: This is not clear. Could you clarify?

Reviewer 2: which part exactly is not clear? in any case, I would already suggest following improvements:
1. "If a display key is already defined in the connector, and you want to change....."
2. "Read/Write (standalone) discreet parameter allowing the user to chose the desired display key format"

Is this enough to make things clearer to you Marieke?

- Default value should be the original format (no impact for existing users)

> - Ref. SLC SDF Naming Format Compatibility

Author: This is not clear, and the SVN link below does not work. How should this be adjusted?

Reviewer 2: Here is the SVN link: "https://svn.skyline.be/svn/SystemDevelopmentFeature/Protocols/SLC SDF Naming Format Compatibility". That's only available to Skyliners though. One day, we want to move such examples to github but we shouldn't be waiting on that to release these new pages. Also note that, we want to rephrase things a bit here so that we refer to the fact the best way to tackle this would be to have a new software feature allowing us to define multiple display key formats. It's only in the meantime and when there is no other option that we should go for the workaround of adding a configurable display key format and building it ourselves via QActions.

But again, and this holds for most of the remarks on this PR, I think it's ok to first release a not perfect version. (this info is now already gone from the old wiki and colleagues are seeking for it). We can improve this iteratively afterwards. We however should take notes of all the remarks you provided Marieke so we can eventually look into improving those things.

  - Version PE.0.0.1
  - Located on SVN: <https://svn.skyline.be/svn/SystemDevelopmentFeature/SLC SDF Naming Format Compatibility/>

> [!NOTE]
> It is possible to implement a workflow to change the display key format on element creation (when the default display key is not the desired one). This will avoid a manual action after every element creation. You can implement this with a correlation rule and an Automation script.

### Display key column does not exist (primary key is the current display key)

- Copy the description of the primary key column to the new display key column.

- Give the primary key column a new description and hide this column (set width to 0).

- Display the new display key column in the original position of the primary key column.

> - The rest of workaround stays the same (see SLC SDF Naming Format Compatibility):

Author: Same problem as above: where can "SLC SDF Naming Format Compatibility" be found?

  - Default value should be the original format (no impact for existing users).

## Common use cases

### Use case 1

[IDX] is located in a column that is intended to be the display key but is not actually the display key (someone forgot the tag naming, for example).

A new range is needed.

This is a mistake. The display key is not correct, and it should be fixed.

### Use case 2

The primary key is the display key and does not have [IDX] in the description. A new display key is wanted.

A new range is needed.

Use the workaround, but **do not** copy the description of the primary key column to the new display key column. Instead a new column should be created with a new name/description to hold the display key.

### Use case 3

The display key is an SNMP column, and it is necessary to have a more customized display key.

A new range is needed.

Use the workaround, but **do not** copy the description of the primary key column to the new display key column. Instead a new column should be created with a more generic name (like "Display Key") to hold the display key. The default value of that column should be the existing display key.

### Use case 4

> The naming tag exists, and the display key is composed by multiple columns. There is no column displaying the composed display key.

Author: Can this be rephrased as follows?

```suggestion
The naming tag exists, and the display key consists of multiple columns. there is no column displaying the composite display key.
```

Reviewer 2: @MariekeGO, The original sounded clearer to me tbh but you're the English expert :)
To give some background info. In connectors we define Display keys format as follow: {123}, blabla, {456}.
For each row in such table, DM will build a display key by appending {value of param with id 123} + hard-coded string 'blabla' + value of param with id 456. Such display key will then be displayed by DM in a specific column. Let me know if you need more explanation

Reviewer: Added this change
